Readme.md, before:

# Chain Core Developer Edition

**Chain Core** is software designed to operate and connect to highly scalable permissioned blockchain networks conforming to the Chain Protocol. Each network maintains a cryptographically-secured transaction log, known as a blockchain, which allows partipicants to define, issue, and transfer digital assets on a multi-asset shared ledger. Digital assets share a common, interoperable format and can represent any units of value that are guaranteed by a trusted issuer — such as currencies, bonds, securities, IOUs, or loyalty points. Each Chain Core holds a copy of the ledger and independently validates each update, or “block,” while a federation of block signers ensures global consistency of the ledger.

**Chain Core Developer Edition** is a free, downloadable version of Chain Core that is open source and licensed under the AGPL. Individuals and organizations use Chain Core Developer Edition to learn, experiment, and build prototypes.

Chain Core Developer Edition can be run locally on Mac, Windows, or Linux to create a new blockchain network, connect to an existing blockchain network, or connect to the public Chain testnet, operated by Chain, Microsoft, and Cornell University’s IC3.

For more information about how to use Chain Core Developer Edition, see the docs: https://chain.com/docs

## Download

To install Chain Core Developer Edition on Mac, Windows, or Linux, please visit [our downloads page](https://chain.com/docs/core/get-started/install).

## Contributing

Chain has adopted the code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant. It can be read in full [here](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
This repository is the canonical source for Chain Core Developer Edition. Consequently, Chain engineers actively maintain this repository.
If you are interested in contributing to this code base, please read our [issue](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md) and [pull request](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) templates first.

## Building from source

* [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) version 1.8, with $GOPATH set to your
  preferred directory
* Postgres (we suggest [Postgres.app](http://postgresapp.com/)),
  along with the [command line tools](http://postgresapp.com/documentation/cli-tools.html)
* [protoc](https://github.com/google/protobuf#protocol-compiler-installation) 3.1.0 and 
  [protoc-gen-g](https://github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go), if you need to compile protos
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/) 3.4 or later, to compile RocksDB and its dependencies

### Environment

Set the `CHAIN` environment variable, in `.profile` in your home
directory, to point to the root of the Chain source code repo:

```sh
export CHAIN=$(go env GOPATH)/src/chain
```

You should also add `$CHAIN/bin` to your path (as well as
`$(go env GOPATH)/bin`, if it isn’t already):

```sh
PATH=$(go env GOPATH)/bin:$CHAIN/bin:$PATH
```

You might want to open a new terminal window to pick up the change.

### Installation

Clone this repository to `$CHAIN`:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/chain/chain $CHAIN
$ cd $CHAIN
```

You can build Chain Core using the `build-cored-release` script.
The build product allows connections over HTTP, unauthenticated
requests from localhost, and the ability to reset the Chain Core.

`build-cored-release` accepts a accepts a Git ref (branch, tag, or commit SHA)
from the chain repository and an output directory:

```sh
$ ./bin/build-cored-release chain-core-server-1.2.0 .
```

This will create two binaries in the current directory:

* [cored](https://chain.com/docs/core/reference/cored): the Chain Core daemon and API server
* [corectl](https://chain.com/docs/core/reference/corectl): control functions for a Chain Core

Set up the database:

```sh
$ createdb core
```

Start Chain Core:

```sh
$ ./cored
```

Access the dashboard:

```sh
$ open http://localhost:1999/
```

Run tests:

```sh
$ go test $(go list ./... | grep -v vendor)
```

### Building from source

There are four build tags that change the behavior of the resulting binary:
  - `reset`: allows the core database to be reset through the api
  - `localhost_auth`: allows unauthenticated requests on the loopback device (localhost)
  - `no_mockhsm`: disables the MockHSM provided for development
  - `http_ok`: allows plain HTTP requests
  - `init_cluster`: automatically creates a single process cluster

The default build process creates a binary with three build tags enabled for a
friendlier experience. To build from source with build tags, use the following
command:

> NOTE: when building from source, make sure to check out a specific
tag to build. The `main` branch is __not considered__ stable, and may
contain in progress features or an inconsistent experience.

```sh
$ go build -tags 'http_ok localhost_auth init_cluster' chain/cmd/cored
$ go build chain/cmd/corectl
```

## Developing Chain Core

### Updating the schema with migrations

```sh
$ go run cmd/dumpschema/main.go
```

### Dependencies

To add or update a Go dependency at import path `x`, do the following:

Copy the code from the package's directory
to `$CHAIN/vendor/x`. For example, to vendor the package
`github.com/kr/pretty`, run

```sh
$ mkdir -p $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr
$ rm -r $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty
$ cp -r $(go list -f {{.Dir}} github.com/kr/pretty) $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty
$ rm -rf $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty/.git
```

(Note: don’t put a trailing slash (`/`) on these paths.
It can change the behavior of cp and put the files
in the wrong place.)

In your commit message, include the commit hash of the upstream repo
for the dependency. (You can find this with `git rev-parse HEAD` in
the upstream repo.) Also, make sure the upstream working tree is clean.
(Check with `git status`.)

## License

Chain Core Developer Edition is licensed under the terms of the [GNU
Affero General Public License Version 3 (AGPL)](LICENSE).

The Chain Java SDK (`/sdk/java`) is licensed under the terms of the
[Apache License Version 2.0](sdk/java/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Readme.md: add copyright info to vendoring instructions

Readme.md, after:

# Chain Core Developer Edition

**Chain Core** is software designed to operate and connect to highly scalable permissioned blockchain networks conforming to the Chain Protocol. Each network maintains a cryptographically-secured transaction log, known as a blockchain, which allows partipicants to define, issue, and transfer digital assets on a multi-asset shared ledger. Digital assets share a common, interoperable format and can represent any units of value that are guaranteed by a trusted issuer — such as currencies, bonds, securities, IOUs, or loyalty points. Each Chain Core holds a copy of the ledger and independently validates each update, or “block,” while a federation of block signers ensures global consistency of the ledger.

**Chain Core Developer Edition** is a free, downloadable version of Chain Core that is open source and licensed under the AGPL. Individuals and organizations use Chain Core Developer Edition to learn, experiment, and build prototypes.

Chain Core Developer Edition can be run locally on Mac, Windows, or Linux to create a new blockchain network, connect to an existing blockchain network, or connect to the public Chain testnet, operated by Chain, Microsoft, and Cornell University’s IC3.

For more information about how to use Chain Core Developer Edition, see the docs: https://chain.com/docs

## Download

To install Chain Core Developer Edition on Mac, Windows, or Linux, please visit [our downloads page](https://chain.com/docs/core/get-started/install).

## Contributing

Chain has adopted the code of conduct defined by the Contributor Covenant. It can be read in full [here](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
This repository is the canonical source for Chain Core Developer Edition. Consequently, Chain engineers actively maintain this repository.
If you are interested in contributing to this code base, please read our [issue](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE.md) and [pull request](https://github.com/chain/chain/blob/main/.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md) templates first.

## Building from source

* [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) version 1.8, with $GOPATH set to your
  preferred directory
* Postgres (we suggest [Postgres.app](http://postgresapp.com/)),
  along with the [command line tools](http://postgresapp.com/documentation/cli-tools.html)
* [protoc](https://github.com/google/protobuf#protocol-compiler-installation) 3.1.0 and
  [protoc-gen-g](https://github.com/golang/protobuf/protoc-gen-go), if you need to compile protos
* [CMake](https://cmake.org/) 3.4 or later, to compile RocksDB and its dependencies

### Environment

Set the `CHAIN` environment variable, in `.profile` in your home
directory, to point to the root of the Chain source code repo:

```sh
export CHAIN=$(go env GOPATH)/src/chain
```

You should also add `$CHAIN/bin` to your path (as well as
`$(go env GOPATH)/bin`, if it isn’t already):

```sh
PATH=$(go env GOPATH)/bin:$CHAIN/bin:$PATH
```

You might want to open a new terminal window to pick up the change.

### Installation

Clone this repository to `$CHAIN`:

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/chain/chain $CHAIN
$ cd $CHAIN
```

You can build Chain Core using the `build-cored-release` script.
The build product allows connections over HTTP, unauthenticated
requests from localhost, and the ability to reset the Chain Core.

`build-cored-release` accepts a accepts a Git ref (branch, tag, or commit SHA)
from the chain repository and an output directory:

```sh
$ ./bin/build-cored-release chain-core-server-1.2.0 .
```

This will create two binaries in the current directory:

* [cored](https://chain.com/docs/core/reference/cored): the Chain Core daemon and API server
* [corectl](https://chain.com/docs/core/reference/corectl): control functions for a Chain Core

Set up the database:

```sh
$ createdb core
```

Start Chain Core:

```sh
$ ./cored
```

Access the dashboard:

```sh
$ open http://localhost:1999/
```

Run tests:

```sh
$ go test $(go list ./... | grep -v vendor)
```

### Building from source

There are four build tags that change the behavior of the resulting binary:
  - `reset`: allows the core database to be reset through the api
  - `localhost_auth`: allows unauthenticated requests on the loopback device (localhost)
  - `no_mockhsm`: disables the MockHSM provided for development
  - `http_ok`: allows plain HTTP requests
  - `init_cluster`: automatically creates a single process cluster

The default build process creates a binary with three build tags enabled for a
friendlier experience. To build from source with build tags, use the following
command:

> NOTE: when building from source, make sure to check out a specific
tag to build. The `main` branch is __not considered__ stable, and may
contain in progress features or an inconsistent experience.

```sh
$ go build -tags 'http_ok localhost_auth init_cluster' chain/cmd/cored
$ go build chain/cmd/corectl
```

## Developing Chain Core

### Updating the schema with migrations

```sh
$ go run cmd/dumpschema/main.go
```

### Dependencies

To add or update a Go dependency at import path `x`, do the following:

Copy the code from the package's directory
to `$CHAIN/vendor/x`. For example, to vendor the package
`github.com/kr/pretty`, run

```sh
$ mkdir -p $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr
$ rm -r $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty
$ cp -r $(go list -f {{.Dir}} github.com/kr/pretty) $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty
$ rm -rf $CHAIN/vendor/github.com/kr/pretty/.git
```

(Note: don’t put a trailing slash (`/`) on these paths.
It can change the behavior of cp and put the files
in the wrong place.)

Since this is a publicy-available open source project, there are some copyright
issues to keep in mind:

1. Don't vendor packages that are licensed under any flavor of the GPL.
2. Remember to duplicate legal notices, including licenses, patent grants, and
   copyrights. These usually sit at the top level of a Git repository, in files
   named `LICENSE`, `NOTICE`, `PATENTS`, or `COPYING`. Repositories sometimes
   have several of these files. If you're vendoring an entire Git repository,
   you won't have to do anything special. However, if you're vendoring a
   subdirectory of a Git repository only, **please also remember to copy any
   license information** that sits at the top level of the repository.

In your commit message, include the commit hash of the upstream repo
for the dependency. (You can find this with `git rev-parse HEAD` in
the upstream repo.) Also, make sure the upstream working tree is clean.
(Check with `git status`.)

## License

Chain Core Developer Edition is licensed under the terms of the [GNU
Affero General Public License Version 3 (AGPL)](LICENSE).

The Chain Java SDK (`/sdk/java`) is licensed under the terms of the
[Apache License Version 2.0](sdk/java/LICENSE).
